I am writing to object to the proposed Stone Hill Park redevelopment of Manston Airport. This is on several grounds:
1) The local plan and the subsequent draft local plan identifies the whole site as for Aviation related use. The local plan documents already designate sufficient sites for Thanet's housing and commercial needs. There is no reasonable justification to develop yet more housing on the sole predicate of 'owning the land and it will make a few bob'
2) The plans as submitted appear to take no regard to the sentiments voiced in the pre-application "public consultations".
3) The plans are at times poorly drafted and inconsistent. This is not of a standard to be expected for a local council to make a significant informed decision.
4) It could be argued that Thanet needs more quality employment, however, the employment component of the draft plans has been significantly reduced at each planning iteration. The plans seem to be predicated on increasing the population of Thanet without necessary economic support in the form of employment
5) The development of a site (a plateau) that is a significant visual part of the skyline will have a negative visual impact on Thanet and the lands in Dover District to the south of the airfield. This will be a blot on the skyline both in the daytime and at night through light pollution from the housing and the street lighting.
6) Currently, the site is predominately grassland with highly restricted public access. This habitat is rare in Thanet and represents a special location for flora and fauna.
7) Significant housing, commercial and road development will radically change the hydrology of the site. Currently, rain water soaks into the the underlying aquifer and provides part of the Thanet's drinking water supply. The loss of this resource to grey water and the additional burden of foul water disposal will have a significant impact on the local water company. There will be the need to source extra potable water and a risk that the local sewage plants will not keep pace with need and thus risk the cherished Blue-Flag status of the local beaches and the subsequent loss of tourism income
8) Housing development close to one of the most inadequate major roads in Thanet, the Haine Road, will significantly impact on traffic travelling to Westwood Cross, the hospital and towards Dover and Deal. Additional cross flows to Ramsgate (town and station) will also increase congestion, journey times and pollution. Extra housing is likely to impinge on the journey quality of Manston residents and introduce 'rat-runs'. Conversely an airport at Manston will have less traffic effect as a significant amount of road journeys will be westward and directly access the dual-carriageway network
9) The introduction of a large number of residential properties can not be sustained within current hospital provision. Cash limits on the NHS is likely to see a reduction on the services offered locally and there will be a need for much road travel between Thanet, Canterbury and Ashford, this again increases the burden on the roads and reduces the prospects for prompt urgent treatment.
